= PertinentParser

PertinentParser is a library for text transformation combination.
It is of particular use when dealing with HTML. For the time being,
it is incomplete.

Basically, PertinentParser describes a set of rules for the composition of text transformations.

== Usage

PertinentParser applies HTML markup to text. It will break tags across existing tag boundaries if you use `wrap_in`.

  require "pertinent_parser"
  h = html("A <i>sentence with</i> some markup.")
  #=> "A sentence with some markup."
  h.apply
  #=> "A <i>sentence with</i> some markup."
  h.wrap_in("<b>", "with some")
  h.apply
  #=> "A <i>sentence <b>with</b></i><b> some</b> markup."

Breaking existing tags across new boundaries using `wrap_out`.

  h = html("A <i>sentence with</i> some markup.")
  h.wrap_out("<b>", "with some")
  h.apply
  #=> "A <i>sentence </i><b><i>with</i> some</b> markup."

Using the replace operator.

  h = html("A <i>sentence with</i> some markup.")
  h.replace("haha totally", "with some")
  h.apply
  #=> "A <i>sentence haha</i> totally markup."

=== Combining with TactfulTokenizer to markup sentences in HTML

Say you were to generate from HTML using Markdown, and then you want to add
annotations denoting the occurences of sentences.

  require "pertinent_parser"
  require "tactful_tokenizer"
  
  m = TactfulTokenizer::Model.new; nil
  h = html("Here in the U.S. Senate we prefer to eat our friends. Is it easier that way? <i>Yes.</i> <i>Maybe</i>!")
  # TactfulTokenizer plays best with text without HTML, which PertinentParser conveniently handles.
  sentences = m.tokenize_text(h)
  #=> ["Here in the U.S. Senate we prefer to eat our friends.", "Is it easier that way?", "Yes.", "Maybe!"]
  sentences.each_with_index do |sentence, i|
      h.wrap_out("<div class='sentence' id='#{i+1}'>", sentence)
  end
  h.apply
  #=> "<div class='sentence' id='1'>Here in the U.S. Senate we prefer to eat our friends.</div> <div class='sentence' id='2'>Is it easier that way?</div> <div class='sentence' id='3'><i>Yes.</i></div> <div class='sentence' id='4'><i>Maybe</i>!</div>"
 
== Installation
  gem install hpricot
  gem install pertinent_parser

The gem isn't up yet, but I'll have it up in a bit. 

== Author

Copyright (c) 2010 Matthew Bunday. All rights reserved.
Released under the MIT/X11 license.
